README.md, before:

# JavaScript Cheatsheet: An Ever-Evolving Beginner's Guide to JavaScript by Brady Gerber

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bg-write/javascript-cheatsheet?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/bg-write/javascript-cheatsheet/issues)

![JavaScript 101](https://doodleipsum.com/700?bg=D96363&i=2950d197771be2105d7d9a91975907bc)

## JavaScript (JS) in Two Sentences

JS was created by Netscape in 1995 as an extension of HTML for Netscape Navigator 2.0 to manipulate HTML documents and form validation. It is an interpreted language; unlike C, C#, and Java, JS needs an "interpreter" aka a web browser.

---

## Getting Started

In `javascript.js`, you'll find all the topics in one file and broken up into different sections. This guide is not meant to be deployed; all you need to do is pull it up as a reference.

To add JS to an HTML file:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
        <title>Document</title>
        <!-- ADD YOUR JS FILE HERE -->
        <script src="script.js"></script>
    </head>
    <body></body>
</html>
```

## JS Topics Covered

- writing comments
- the console log
- variables
- doing basic math
- playing with strings
- expressions
- loops
- objects
- arrays
- functions
- object oriented programming (OOP)
- DOM manipulation
- event listeners
- JSON
- error handling
- working with APIs
- async/await & promises
- hashmap & hashtable
- simple JS solutions to a few popular technical challenges (palindrome, fizzbuzz, and fibonacci)
- node.js
- jQuery

This isn't everything to know about JS. It is, however, a great place to start.

---

## JS Cheatsheet Style Guide

### CSS

There are no CSS files added for the sake of simplicity. (A CSS beginner's guide is currently in the works.)

### The Code Itself

This JS guide follows [Google's JS style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html) as closely as possible. This involves following [Nethmi Wijesinghe's excellent set-up guide](https://enlear.academy/how-to-set-up-airbnb-style-guide-82413ea6c5f2) for installing ESLint and Prettier in VS Code to match Google's guide in a new project. Nethmi's guide also works if you wish to use another popular style guide (i.e. Airbnb).

### Accessibility

No Lighthouse reports were run due to lack of deployment for this guide.

### Testing

TBD

---

## How Can YOU Contribute?

Add any essential JS topics with examples!

---

## Want More JS Practice?

Many people enjoy LeetCode, but I think [NeetCode](https://neetcode.io/) and [CodeSignal](https://codesignal.com/) are easier to use and include more approachable coding questions.

---

## Closing Credits

Thank you to my instructors at General Assembly for my first steps into JS. Also shout-out to the many helpful YouTube channels I still refer to: [Traversy Media](https://www.youtube.com/c/TraversyMedia), [Web Dev Simplified](https://www.youtube.com/c/WebDevSimplified), [The Net Ninja](https://www.youtube.com/c/TheNetNinja), [Programming with Mosh](https://www.youtube.com/c/programmingwithmosh), and [Fireship](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHjqpvDnNGE).

© 2023 Brady Gerber. All Rights Reserved.

Commit message:

start breaking down js file

README.md, after:

# JavaScript Cheatsheet: An Ever-Evolving Beginner's Guide to JS by Brady Gerber

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bg-write/javascript-cheatsheet?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/bg-write/javascript-cheatsheet/issues)

![JavaScript 101](https://doodleipsum.com/700?bg=D96363&i=2950d197771be2105d7d9a91975907bc)

## JavaScript (JS) in Three Sentences

JavaScript was created by Netscape in 1995 as an extension of HTML for Netscape Navigator 2.0 to manipulate HTML documents and form validation. JS is an interpreted language; unlike C, C#, and Java, JS needs an "interpreter" aka a web browser. If HTML is the skeleton and CSS is our skin, JS is our brain telling us to "do" stuff.

---

## Getting Started

In the `js-guides` folder, you'll find topics divided into different files. I initially wrote this guide as one single .js file but found it easier to read and digest the material by breaking down sections into their own files. This guide is not meant to be deployed.

To add JS to an HTML file:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
        <title>Document</title>
        <!-- ADD YOUR JS FILE HERE -->
        <script src="script.js"></script>
    </head>
    <body></body>
</html>
```

## JS Topics Covered

- Writing comments
- Console log (writing and printing messages)
- Data types
- Control flow (operators & flow statements)
  
  - if
  - if ... else
  - if ... else ... if
  - ternary
  - switch
  - while
  - do ... while
  - for

- basic math
- playing with strings
- expressions
- loops
- objects & object oriented programming (OOP)
- arrays
- functions
- DOM manipulation
- event listeners
- JSON
- error handling
- working with APIs
- async/await & promises
- hashmap & hashtable
- simple JS solutions to a few popular technical challenges (palindrome, fizzbuzz, and fibonacci)
- node.js
- jQuery

This guide doesn't include everything to know about JS. It is, however, a great place to start.

---

## JS Cheatsheet Style Guide

### CSS

There are no CSS files for the sake of simplicity. (A CSS beginner's guide is currently in the works.)

### The Code Itself

This JS guide follows [Google's JS style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html) as closely as possible. This involves following [Nethmi Wijesinghe's excellent set-up guide](https://enlear.academy/how-to-set-up-airbnb-style-guide-82413ea6c5f2) for installing ESLint and Prettier in VS Code to match Google's guide in a new project. Nethmi's guide also works if you wish to use another popular style guide (i.e. Airbnb).

### Accessibility

No Lighthouse reports were run due to lack of deployment for this guide.

### Testing

TBD

---

## How Can YOU Contribute?

Add any essential JS topics with examples!

---

## Want More JS Practice?

Many people enjoy LeetCode, but I think [NeetCode](https://neetcode.io/) and [CodeSignal](https://codesignal.com/) are easier to use and include more approachable coding questions.

---

## Closing Credits

Thank you to my instructors at General Assembly for my first steps into JS. Also shout-out to the many helpful YouTube channels I still refer to: [Traversy Media](https://www.youtube.com/c/TraversyMedia), [Web Dev Simplified](https://www.youtube.com/c/WebDevSimplified), [The Net Ninja](https://www.youtube.com/c/TheNetNinja), [Programming with Mosh](https://www.youtube.com/c/programmingwithmosh), and [Fireship](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHjqpvDnNGE).

© 2023 Brady Gerber. All Rights Reserved.
